# flutter-app


Page 1
•Supervising Professor:Mr Hamid MACHHOURRealized by :✓ Imad ELHASSBI✓ Iliyass ZAMOURI✓ Hanae EL HAMDANIFor the graduation ofsenior technician indevelopment of information systemsUnder the theme
Page 2
DEDICATIONSTo our dear parents, No homage could live up to yoursacrifices, from the love of the affectation which you have never ceased to surround usall throughout this project. I hope you find in this report a realtestimony of our deep loves and our eternal gratitude.To all our families.To all our teachers with our consideration.To our dear friends and colleagues.To all who love us.To everyone we love.
Page 3
THANKSWe would first like to thank the entire teaching team of thehigher technician's certificate.Before starting this report, we take this opportunity to thank allfirst our supervisor Mr. MACHHOUR who has not stopped encouraging usduring the duration of the project, as well for its generosity in terms of training andframing. We also thank him for the help and advice he gave us.provided during the various follow-ups, and for the confidence he has shown in us.We would also like to express our sincere thanks to allteachers, in particular Mr. HARRANE and Mr. ALAMI who taught us and whoby their skills have supported us in the pursuit of our studies.Finally, we thank all those who, from near or far, have contributed to the realizationof this work
Page 4
TABLE OF CONTENTSDedicationsThanksContentsI. General introductionII.Project framework1.Background and problem definition2.project objectiveIII.Design1.Modeling language2. System usage diagrama) The actorsb) Use cases3.Global class diagram4.Sequence diagramsa) Authentication of a new userb) The operation of placing an orderIV.Realization1.Working environmenta) Software environmentb) Programming language and technology used2.Figure Presentation of the application interfacesa) Authentication interfacesb) Client interfacesc) Enterprise interfacesd) Delivery man interfacesV. General conclusionVI. Real-time realizationVII.Table of FiguresVIII.BibliographyIX.Netography
Page 5
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés1I. GENERAL INTRODUCTIONThere is no longer any doubt that IT represents the most important revolution and themost innovative that marked humanity during all these years. Indeed, far from being aephemeral fashion phenomenon, or a passing trend, IT brings usmultiple changes to our way of life. No domain has remained foreign to thisstrategy that offers so many services for the company or the administration as well as for thestaff.In order to finalize our study in the information systems development sector inwithin the BTS establishment, We were responsible for carrying out an end-of-study project.This project is an opportunity to organize our knowledge well and to know andshow our ability to build an IT project by integrating a group and with the helpof our supervisor.Fuel delivery is an effort to largely solve the problem ofmanage your fuel needs efficiently, cost effectively and most importantly, safely.We intend to deliver diesel to users. With the help of an app,users will be able to manage and track the order until delivery. In addition, the application will followyour use, we strive to revolutionize fuel delivery, by transportinggasoline and diesel at the customer's doorstep. Our mission is to provide high quality fuelquality anywhere, anytime, provide the best service anytimeOur project consists of developing a mobile fuel delivery application.The "Fuel Delivery" application is a mobile application that will facilitate the refueling ofyour car. A gasoline truck driver will come and refuel your vehicle. Thecompanies will have an important role. Because we need specific trucks with afunction of refueling cars with fuel on site.It is easy to use, it will take 2 minutes to register. Then you can easilyrequest fuel delivery in just a few clicks. Payment can be made online orin cash on delivery.
Page 6
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés2II. PROJECT FRAMEWORK1. Context and problem definition•Why the delivery of fuel?We are in the age of speed, time is more precious than anything. Losedaily or weekly time at the service company is not agood habits. Sometimes it will take you an hour to get to the service company incause of traffic jams.•Emergency situations:It will be very useful in an emergency or when you forget to fill your vehicle andthat you find out that you are so far from the nearest service company.•Time saving :It is so stressful to go to a service company to refuelin your vehicle. Especially when you are too busy to do it.2. Project objectiveCreation of accounts:The customer account will be identified by an ID, the Name and the First name, Address a Number ofphone, make of the car, registration and an Email and a password. The accountdelivery person is identified by delivery number, surname and first name and telephone number.Detect your current position:Functionality so that the position will be detected automatically.Online payment :Functionality so that the payment can be online by a bank card.The performance :Given the number of simultaneous users, the application must be able tosatisfy all users of the application.Reliability:The application must have a good quality of content as well as a good adaptability todifferent mobile devices. On the other hand it is necessary to ensure the correct functioning without error.Who is the app for?Anyone can use this app, you don't need a credit cardpayment you can pay in cash. You can make a request at any time,from any location. However, if you have a factory or business oftransport. You can request gas on site to refuel your vehicles ortrucks.
Page 7
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés3III. DESIGNThe design is an important phase before the realization of any project, this phaserequires methods allowing to set up a model on which one will be based.That is to say, create a representation similar to reality in such a way as to bring out the pointswe are interested in. For this work we opted for the uml modeling language.1. Modeling languageWe used uml modeling for the following reasons:✓ To obtain a very high level modeling independent of languages ​​andenvironments.✓ To get participants from all walks of life to collaborate around a single documentsynthesis.✓ To do simulations before building a system.✓ To express in a single model all the static, dynamic, legal,specifications, etc ...✓ To document a project.✓ To automatically generate the software part of a system.2. System usage diagramWe proceed in this step to the identification of all the functionalities of oursystem for the user and this by identifying the functional needs and understanding thelist of requirements translated by non-functional needs.a) The actors• The client• The delivery man• The companyThey are the main actors of our application they take advantage of all the functionsoffered by the application.
Page 8
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés4b) Use cases• CUSTOMER USE CASE DIAGRAMFigure 1: Customer Use Case Diagram
Page 9
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés5• DELIVERER USE CASE DIAGRAMFigure 2: Delivery Person Use Case Diagram
Page 10
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés6• COMPANY USE CASE DIAGRAMFigure 3: Business Use Case Diagram
Page 11
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés73. Global class diagramFigure 4: Class diagram
Page 12
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés84. Sequence diagramsa) Authentication of a new userFigure 5: authentication sequence
Page 13
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés9b) The operation of placing an orderThe sequence and events for placing an order:Figure 6: Sequence diagram of making an order
Page 14
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés10IV. PRODUCTION1. Work environmenta) Software environment• VS code:Visual Studio Code is an open-source code editor developed by Microsoftsupporting a very large number of languages ​​thanks to extensions. It supports the autocompletion, syntax highlighting, debugging, and Git commands.VS code is easy to install, understand, use and fast, it has aresponsive and customizable graphical interface via already installed themes.And with the “IntelliSense” functionality, VS Code supports developers all the way.along their developments in order to simplify code editing, calling properties,or on the import of dependencies. This system is available by default forseveral languages ​​but also can be configured for others.• GitHub:GitHub is a cloud-based project management and organization platformwhich integrates the version control functions of Git. In other words, allGitHub users can track and manage source code changesin real time while having access to all other Git functions available atsame place.In addition, the user interface of GitHub is more user-friendly than that of Git, whichmakes it accessible to people who have little or no knowledgetechniques. This means that more team members can beincluded in the progress and management of a projectGitHub has been a real help in our workflow, it helps us organizeour code base, our project structure, avoiding conflicts and identifying thebugs in no time.
Page 15
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés11b) Programming language and technology usedFirebaseWhat is Firebase?Firebase is a mobile platform from Google facilitating the creation of scalable backends andpowerful, dedicated mainly to mobile applications.The technology used is the NoSQL Realtime DataBase.Hosted in the Cloud, it stores and synchronizes user data in real time.Using a simple API, Firebase provides the application with current data values ​​andrefreshes automatically. Through this, the platform allows, among other things, to manageuser authentication, test their application on all platforms (web, iOS,Android), perform remote updates, obtain and analyze crash reports ...The user has Google Analytics which reports on user experience andallows for example to trigger notifications accordingly.The goal of FirebaseThe primary objective of Firebase is to free you from the complexity of creation andmaintenance of a server architecture, while guaranteeing you foolproof scalability(several billion users) and ease of use.For this, Firebase has been broken down into several extremely rich and suitable productsto the mobile world.Firebase productsThe products that we use on Firebase:o Cloud Firestore : Firebase document-oriented NoSQL database,allowing easy storage, synchronization and retrieval of remote datafor a mobile application.o Storage: Firebase storage space dedicated to the storage and retrieval ofuser-specific files such as photos or videos.o Authentication : Solution to easily create and manage resourcesvarious authentication systems (Google, Facebook, Email, etc.) in order to secureaccess to a mobile application and authenticate users. Several methodsare available to you to authenticate your users, in particular the operation of: Their e-mail, Google Cloud, Twitter, Facebook or Phone number.
Page 16
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés12FlutterWhat is Flutter?Flutter is an open-source mobile application development framework created by Googleto create high-performance apps for iOS and Android in a single databasecoded. Flutter gives developers a fast and expressive way to build appsnatives.Flutter relies on the DART programming language (originally called Dash), createdalso by Google and presented to the public in 2011.Main of FlutterFlutter has 2 main specificities:• Widgets: they allow you to simply describe the final rendering. Each object isdefined independently of parent constraints. This is its location in thecode that will define its external constraints. This makes it possible to buildeasily its interface; the code is then more easily readable and maintainable.• The components: they were recreated by Google. Developers havea gallery of components adapting to IOS like Android, and to the differentOS versions.Thanks to the 'Hot Reload' feature of the DART language, the build of applications is veryfast, which makes compilation time almost invisible. Another time saver fordevelopers! So there are many advantages, but there are also disadvantages.The advantages of FlutterHere are the basics of Flutter and why we use it for the development of ourmobile app :• Hot Reload: In the flutter, you do not needrun the code each time you made changes. Flutterworks like a website that allows the Framework to rebuildautomatically the tree structure of widgets. It allows you to visualize the effect of yourmodifications, thus saving time and also contributes to arapid development.• High Performance: Flutter does not require a JavaScript bridge and the speed ismuch faster than others.• Native applications for IOS and Android: Flutter has all thefeatures of native platforms, such as scrolling, navigation,icon fonts, text, List view, etc., which is why apps designedwith Flutter functionality on Android and iOS.• Develop code for two platforms: Flutter has its own widgets anddesigns. Widgets are the elements that control the view and interface of aapplication. Flutter is platform independent covering both iOS andAndroid. Thus, an application can be designed to work on bothplatforms.
Page 17
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés13Accelerated and optimized maintenance: Bug fixes are quick andregular, even older versions of OS are supported from iOS 8 and + and fromAndroid 4.1 and aboveThe disadvantages of FlutterThe only and the big downside is that Flutter is young.The first alpha version of Flutter dates from 2017, and for a Framework ofdevelopment, this information is of paramount importance. A young tool means lessof developers able to use it. This in turn implies a reduced community.Nevertheless, if we look at the latest information on this subject, Flutter has just overtakeniOS in number of tickets, which means that the community is growing day by day.The community around a language or a Framework is an essential element whenthe development phase. In the event of a problem, the chances are greater that aother developer has already encountered this problem and found a solution.The structure of a Flutter projectWhenever we create a new project in Flatter, these are the files andavailable directories:Assets: directory contains images, translation files and custom font files.IOS: directory contains additional required only for IOS device.Android: directory contains additional data required only forAndroid device.Lib: the main directory which contains all the methods, classes and views required fora functional applicationpubspec.yaml : File contains the basic data of the application (name of the application,description, flutter version to use ...) as well as the dependencies that must be loadedby the editor before debugging.Dependencies usedOur application will rely on countless external libraries, so that wecan provide professional application with basic performance.The main libraries used:• Image_picker:A Flutter plugin for iOS and Android to choose images from the image libraryand take new photos with the camera.We use this library to allow users to select ortake pictures for their profile picture, and to allow businesses to addphotos from their workstations.
Page 18
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés14• Image_cropper:A Flutter plugin for Android and iOS supports cropping images. This pluginis based on two different native libraries, so it comes with an interfacedifferent user between these platforms.We use this library so that users can crop and edit theirphotos after browsing them in our application using the Image_picker.• flutter_colorpicker:A color picker inspired by chrome developer tools and a color pickermaterial colors for flutter applications.We use this library to allow users to set the color oftheir car when creating an order on the application.• barcode_scan:A flutter plugin for scanning 2D barcodes and QR codes.The operator uses this library to scan the customer's QR code containing the codeorder to confirm that the order has been placed.• qr_flutter:Qr_flutter is a Flutter library for quick and easy QR code rendering via aWidget or custom painter.This is the library for generating client side QR codes, containing the codecontrol.• flutter_polyline_points:A flutter plugin that decodes the string of Google polylines encoded into a list of coordinatessuitable for displaying the route / polyline on maps.
Page 19
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés152. Figure Presentation of the application interfacesa) Authentication interfacesAuthentication page, forchoose between logging in orregister.You can choose alanguage between French andenglish.Figure 9: Login pageFigure 8: Creation pageaccountFigure 7: Authentication page
Page 20
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés16After checking the email and the wordpassword, the user must choosebetween a customer account or abusinessIf you choose the customer youmust fill out the formpersonal informationIf you choose to youconnect to the application asthat company, you must completeyour business data.You must add at leasta type of fuel forcomplete your registrationFigure 12: Registration form(Customer)Figure 11: Types pagefuelFigure 10: Registration form (company)Figure 13: Account type
Page 21
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés17b) Client interfacesThe app will ask for permissionto display stations / Companiesordered by their locationPressing a station displays a pagefull of information about this stationFigure 17 Customer Home PageFigure 14: Nearby businessesFigure 16: Customer home pageFigure 15: Company profile page
Page 22
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés18Explore all stationssorted by the number oforders placedYou must choose betweencash on deliveryor online paymentby credit cardThis page to confirmyour order fillFigure 21: address detectionFigure 18: order formFigure 20: confirmation oforderedFigure 19: explorePlace order infilling out the formordered
Page 23
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés19You can see allorders madeAnd you can undo it if it isn'taccepted by a delivery person.You can see thedetails of the orderQR code is usedto validate the delivery(scanned by the delivery man)Figure 23: all commands(customer)Figure 24: Order detailsdelivered (customer)Figure 22: details of theorder in delivery (customer)The click shows the QR code
Page 24
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés20Profile, access to commandsQuick access to yourfavorite companyEdit informationpersonal managesettingsFigure 27: Edit profileFigure 26: The parametersFigure 25: Profile
Page 25
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés21c) Enterprise interfacesReception of the resortcontains the live order,the list changes in real timeClick on acommand displays apage that contains moreinformation onorderedAnd the station can alsoconsult the old onesordersAnd see the delivery manof aorderedcompleted and the dateDelivery
Page 26
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés22Consult the delivery stafftheir business, andtheir availability inreal timeYou can add adelivery person to your staff insending him a requestworkingManage application settingsand get more informationapplicationFigure 30: parameters (company)Figure 28: deliverers of a companyTransfer to camerato scan the QR code.And confirm the operation.Figure 29: add delivery man
Page 27
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés23This page will give the station thepossibility to customizeyour public profile information andadd more photosManage types andfuel pricesAdd newfuel typeFigure 33: management pagefuel typesSide menu for quick accessto the different pages and parametersFigure 32: new type offuelFigure 31: profile pagecompany / modifyFigure 34: side menu(business)
Page 28
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés24d) Delivery man interfacesLive sound controlbusiness.Change status.( Availability )Show allinformation beforeto check to deliverSee information fromcustomerRedirect to Google Mapwith direction to the placecurrent customerFigure 35: Home page of the delivery manFigure 36: order details
Page 29
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés25Order historycarried out by the delivery personConsult their personal profileFigure 37: history oforders (delivery person)Figure 38: Profile (delivery man)Figure 39: Edit profile (delivery man)
Page 30
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés26Manage application settingsand get more information aboutthe application.Figure 41: side bar (delivery man)Figure 40: The parameters(delivery man)
Page 31
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés27V. GENERAL CONCLUSIONThe development of our FUEL-DELIVERY mobile application has enabled us toconfront a professional experience in the field of development ofmobile applications that we can only describe as enriching. In addition, this project wehas brought more to programming languages ​​and platforms that wewe discovered and practiced.We have presented in this report all the steps necessary for the designand the development of the application. The latter is developed for the use of the threeactors who are the customer, the delivery person and the company. It allows communication between the clientand the company and between the company and the delivery person.This project also gave us the opportunity to acquire new knowledge aboutof FIREBASE, FLUTTER, DART ... and to master programming languages, which will becertainly useful in our future professional lives.This project also calls on our creativity and will bring us a lot as much in terms ofof technical knowledge, that in human terms given that we have toorganize.Finally, it is thanks to this project that we had the opportunity to accumulatetheoretical knowledge with that of practice. This also allows you to enteractive life and to discover more precisely the professional environment.We are also convinced that the elaborate work is only a primary stepboth for a professional career and for further studies.
Page 32
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés28VI. REAL-TIME REALIZATION
Page 33
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés29VII. SHAPES TABLEFigure 1: Customer use case diagram ....................................... ..................... 4Figure 2: Delivery Driver Use Case Diagram ....................................... .................... 5Figure 3: Business Use Case Diagram ..................................... .............. 6Figure 4: Class diagram ............................................ ............................................ 7Figure 5: authentication sequence ........................................... .................................... 8Figure 6: Sequence diagram of placing an order ........................................ ..... 9Figure 7: Authentication page ........................................... ......................................... 10Figure 8: Account creation page .......................................... .................................. 10Figure 9: Login page ............................................ .............................................. 10Figure 10: Registration form (company) ........................................ ...................... 10Figure 11: Fuel types page .......................................... ............................... 10Figure 12: Registration form (Client) ........................................ ............................. 10Figure 13: Type of account ............................................ ................................................. 10Figure 16: Nearby businesses ............................................ ...................................... 10Figure 14: Company profile page .......................................... ........................................ 10Figure 15: Customer home page ......................................... ........................................ 10Figure 17 Customer home page .......................................... ......................................... 10Figure 18: order form ............................................ ............................................. 10Figure 19: explore .............................................. .................................................. ......... 10Figure 20: order confirmation ............................................ ............................... 10Figure 21: address detection ........................................... ............................................ 10Figure 22: details of the order in delivery (customer) ...................................... ............ 10Figure 23: all orders (customer) ......................................... .............................. 10Figure 24: details of the order delivered (customer) ....................................... ..................... 10Figure 25: Profile .............................................. .................................................. .............. 10Figure 26: The parameters ............................................. ................................................ 10Figure 27: Edit profile ............................................ ................................................. 10Figure 30: deliverers of a company .......................................... ...................................... 10Figure 29: add delivery man ............................................. .................................................. .. 10Figure 28: parameters (company) ........................................... ...................................... 10Figure 31: Company profile page / edit ....................................... ....................... 10Figure 32: new type of fuel ........................................... ................................. 10Figure 33: fuel types management page ........................................ ................ 10Figure 34: side menu (company) .......................................... ..................................... 10
Page 34
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés30Figure 35: Home page of the delivery man ......................................... ....................................... 10Figure 36: order details ........................................... ...................................... 10Figure 37: order history (delivery person) ......................................... ...................... 10Figure 38: Profile (delivery man) ........................................... .................................................. .... 10Figure 39: Modify profile (delivery man) .......................................... .......................................... 10Figure 40: The parameters (delivery man) .......................................... ...................................... 10Figure 41: side bar (delivery man) .......................................... .......................................... 10
Page 35
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés31VIII. BIBLIOGRAPHYHassan Fulaih. Flutter & Dart - The Complete Guide [Arabic Edition] [online]. Instead ofthe edition: udemy, 05/23/2020. Available on :https://www.udemy.com/share/103jreAEYacFdUQX0H/Shaun Pelling. Flutter & Firebase App Build [online]. Place of publication: youtube,09/20/2019. Available at: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4cUxeGkcC9j--TKIdkb3ISfRbJeJYQwCFlutter, Flutter Widget of the Week [93 video] [online]. Place of publication: YouTube,02/22/2019. Available on :https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLjxrf2q8roU23XGwz3Km7sQZFTdB996iGMohammed ESSA, Flutter Framework for iOS & Android App [120 video] [online]. Locationfrom the edition: YouTube, 09/17/2018. Available on :https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLMYF6NkLrdN_6lIwODq-3MQzF4I3Qhfih
Page 36
Academic year: 2020/2021DSI-BTS Fés32IX. NETOGRAPHYSITEUSEhttps://flutter.dev/The best and most accurate documentationfor Flutterhttps://pub.dev/This site contains all the dependencies of whichwe need, as well as theirdocumentation and their usehttps://github.com/feul-delivery/flutter-appWe use this site to continue towork as a team on the same projecthttps://stackoverflow.com/We use this site to find asolution to the bug and errors that wemeet in our applicationhttps://firebase.google.com/docsFirebase Documentationhttps://fireship.io/courses/flutter-firebase/ Flutter and Firebase courseshttps://www.javatpoint.com/flutterFlutter Tutorialhttps://developers.google.com/learn/pathways / intro-to-flutterFlutter Tutorialhttps://www.tutorialspoint.com/flutter/index.htmFlutter Tutorialhttps://colorhunt.co/Find the right color for ourapplicationhttps://www.myfonts.com/fonts/rene-bieder / quarion /Get the font for our app
